The DanBot uses 3 general ideas to give us a prediction:
  - It looks at chart indicators
  - It looks at historical attributes
  - It uses an algorithm named SVM

Q: Which chart indicators does DanBot use?
A: Most of them.  One advantage that DanBot has over me is that it can easily "look" at 100 chart indicators.
   When I look at a chart, I get confused by more than 5 indicators.
   Here is a chart of IBM with many indicators:

faq_ibm_chart.png

Q: Which historical attributes does DanBot use?
A: It looks at these:
  - Each day, the number of seconds since market open.
  - Hour of the day
  - Day of the week
  - Day of the month
  - Week of the month
  - Month of the year

Q: Why does DanBot look at historical attributes?
A: Via a simple OLAP query I discovered that, on Fridays,
if I buy the SPY ETF one to two hours before market close
and then sell it one to two hours before market close the next trading day
(usually a Monday), I usually earn a gain.
My explanation for this market behavior is that many speculators avoid holding stocks over the weekend.

Another example of historical attributes as predictive indicators is month of the year.

Typically the SPY ETF does poorly May through August.

It usually gains during spring and fall.

My partial explanation for this market behavior is that many speculators avoid holding stocks over summer vacation.

So, I now feed historical attributes to the DanBot.
Maybe other clock or calendar based events affect prices.
If so, the SVM algorithm has the power to spot them.

Q: How does the DanBot use the SVM algorithm?
A: If you are familiar with statistics, I compare the SVM algorithm to Pearson's Correlation calculation.
I use  Pearson's Correlation calculation to study a set of numeric-attribute-pairs which are best visualized as a scatter-plot.

For example,
If I suspect that the average-one-day gain of AAPL depends on the slope of the price-moving-average of AAPL,
I would use Pearson's Correlation calculation study this possible dependency.

Also I would plot these two attributes in a scatter plot.

I'd plot price-moving-average on the horizontal-axis to designate that it is an independent attribute.

I'd plot one-day-gain on the vertical-axis to signal my hope that it depends on price-moving-average (and thus predictable and then I could get rich).

